1. According to paragraph 1, building materials in use before the nineteenth century were 
A. not significantly changed from their natural forms 
B. strong and durable 
C. too expensive to use on a large scale 
D. eventually replaced by lime mortar and Roman concrete 
2. In paragraph 1, the author discusses the properties of bronze and iron in order to
A. contrast the qualities of bronze with those of iron 
B. explain why metals were not widely used in architecture before industrialization 
C. provide a reason why industrialization rad ically changed architectural materials 
D. demonstrate that decorative materials were used in architecture before industrializat ion 
3. According to paragraph 2, how did iron production change during the Industrial Revolution? 
A. As the level of production dramatically increased, the quality of the finished product became more and more 
variable 
B. New, higher-quality sources of iron were discovered in Earth's crust. 
C. The distinction between pure and impure iron was replaced by distinctions among cast iron, wrought iron, and 
steel 
D. Better iron was produced through heating and cooling treatments, control of carbon content, and purification of 
the metal 
4. The word "bountifully" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. originally 
B. usually 
C. with difficulty 
D. abundantly 
5. The word "crudest" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. least common 
B. least processed 
C. least expensive 
D. least useful 
6. According to paragraph 2, how does steel compare with other forms of iron? 
A. It is the most widely available because it is the easiest to produce 
B. It is the hardest because it contains the least carbon 
C. It is the easiest to shape because it contains the fewest impurit ies 
D. It is the most useful because it is both strong and flexible. 
7. All of the fol lowing are mentioned in paragraph 3 as reasons for the increase in production of cast and wrought iron 
in the early and mid -nineteenth century EXCEPT 
A. lack of technology for steel production 
B. quickly rising demand for iron 
C. improved methods for producing iron 
D. new ways to move materials from place to place 
8. According to paragraph 4, how did the wrought iron referred to as steel differ from true steel? 
A. It was softer than true steel 
B. It contained more impurities than true steel did 
C. It was less expensive than true steel 
D. It cou ld not be shaped as easily as true steel. 
9. According to paragraph 4, why did some manufacturers of wrought iron call their product steel? 
A. To differentiate their product from cast iron 
B. To indicate that their product did not contain slag 
C. To take advantage of the value attached to true steel 
D. To suggest that steel could be as soft as wrought iron 
10. According to paragraph 5, all the following were advantages of concrete made with portland cement EXCEPT: 
A. It lasted longer than other types of concrete. 
B. It did not burn as easily as other types of concrete 
C. It was stronger than other types of concrete. 
D. It was cheaper than other types of concrete. 
11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? 
Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information 

A. Even wit h portland cement, concrete had a lower tensi le strength than iron and steel did and thus was used less as 
these metals became more available. 
B. The new availability of iron and steel complemented t he use of concrete but could not make up for the low tensile 
strength of portland cement. 
C. Li ke iron and steel, concrete went from being a material whose use was severely restricted to being one that was 
widely available. 
D. The widespread use of concrete wou ld not have been possible without iron and steel to offset its low tensile 
strength 
12. The word "revival" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. application 
B. return to use 
C. manufacture 
D. result 
13. Look at the four squares [] t hat indicate where t he following sentence could be added to the passage 
The remedy to concrete' s shortcomings was to reinforce it with such bars. 
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square [] to add t he sentence to the passage. 

14. Industrialization in the nineteenth century revolutionized bu ilding materials. 
Answer Choices 
A. The only early building materials t hat were not provided directly by nature were lime mortar and Roman concrete 
B. In the second half of the nineteenth century, it became possible to mass produce steel that was both strong and 
malleable 
C. The problem with iron as a building material is that, unlike wood and masonry, it quickly rusts. 
D. Technological adva nces and increased demand led to the production of vast quantities of cast and wrought iron in 
the first half of the nineteenth century 
E. Cast iron and wroug ht iron were the most common building materials unt il they were replaced by steel in the last 
third of the nineteenth century. 
F. The introduction of portland cement led to the large-scale use of concrete as a building material. 
Dealing with Extreme Cold 

1.