1. The word "persist " in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. continue 
B. return 
C. vary widely 
D. keep fal ling 
2. The word "conservation " in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. contributing 
B. creating 
C. distributing 
D. saving 
3. According to paragraph 2, how does a layer of fat beneath the skin help an animal deal with subzero temperatures? 
A. It prevents blood from circulating to the animal's extremities 
B. helps t he animal generate its own heat. 
C. It reduces t he loss of body heat 
D. It helps t he animal to adjust its metabolism 
4. Paragraph 2 supports which of the fol lowing statements about endothermic animals? 
A. Some avoid freezing by remaining under a layer of snow, under the ground, or near the bottom of a lake 
B. They are unable to rema in active when temperatures are below 0째C over long periods of time. 
C. They are sometimes able to survive ice formation within their bodies in addition to being able to avoid freezing 
D. The ones that lie dormant in freezing temperatures tend to have less effective insulation than those that remain 
active. 
5. According to paragraph 3, an organism is freezing tolerant if it 
A. can live in an environment in which temperatures are generally below freezing 
B. has body and cell fluids with a very low melting point 
C. has more than one effective response to freezing temperatures 
D. can survive having the fluids in its cel ls freeze 
6. According to paragraph 3, organisms that are freezing tolerant are likely to live in an environment that 
A. wi ll not subject t hem to inocu lative freezing 
B. is wet during periods of below freezing temperatures 
C. makes changing demands that allow the organisms to switch between different cold- adaptive strategies as 
needed 
D. has no organisms that survive cold by using strategies that avoid freezing 
7. According to paragraph 3, having a cocoon or an eggshell may give an organism living in very low temperatures an 
advantage by 
A. making it freezing tolerant 
B. lowering the melting point of its body fluids 
C. protecting its outer surface from contact with ice 
D. preventing ice from getting inside its body 
8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? 
Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information 

A. Organisms that find it easy to maintain their body fluids in a liquid state at low temperatures may be able to avoid 
the problem of inoculative freezing when exposed to water. 
B. Organisms that are unlikely to be in contact with water can avoid the problem of inoculative freezing at subzero 
temperatures by maintaining their body fluids in a liquid state 
C. it is easier for an organism to tolerate being frozen than to keep its body fluids liquid at subzero temperatures, 
inoculative freezing may not be a problem. 
D. Organisms that are not in contact with water during periods of subzero temperature may find it easier to survive 
the cold by using a strategy that keeps their body fluids from freezing 
9. The information about the "overwintering larvae of a beetle from northern Indiana' ' is presented to show 
A. that the particular cold-survival strategy an organism adopts is not necessarily a permanent characteristic of the 
species 
B. how long it takes an organism lo switch from one cold-surviving strategy to the other 
C. what types of adaptation make it possible for an organism to switch between the two cold-surviving strategies 
D. why adopting a freeze-avoiding strategy for cold survival rather than a freezing-tolerant strategy might be 
advantaaeous 
10. The phrase "intervening years" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. rema1n1ng years 
B. colder years 
C. years in between 
D. years studied 
11. The word "immersed" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. caught 
B. floating 
C. hiding 
D. covered 
12. At the end of paragraph 4, the author discusses an Antarctic nematode because 
A. it illustrates the kind of adaptations that freeze-avoiding and freezing-tolerant organisms have in common 
B. it shows that it is possible for organisms to switch between the two cold-survival strategies more than once 
C. it explains why it is easy for beetles to switch between the two cold -survival strategies 
D. the cold-survival strategy it displays is determined by the particular circumstances in which it finds itself 
13. Look at the four squares [] t hat indicate where t he following sentence could be added to the passage 
Thus there are usually places available where an inactive organism can wait out the cold without expending much 
energy to keep itself from freezing. 
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square [] to add the sentence to the passage. 

14. In many diverse environments, organisms must deal with the danger of freezing. 
A. Even in environments in which air temperatures are below freezing for long periods, there are generally some 
protected places in which temperatures remain safely above freezing. 
B. Organisms in wet environments that cannot avoid inoculative freezing can survive extreme cold only by being able 
to tolerate having their body fluids freeze. 
C. Freezing -tolerant beetles have been found to survive temperatures as low as -28째C , whereas beetles of the same 
species that are freeze avoiding could not survive temperatures below -26째C
D. Most endothermic animals must hibernate below an insulating layer of snow to avoid freezing because fur and 
feathers alone do not provide enough insulation. 
E. Freeze-avoid ing organisms have body fluids that remain liquid below 0째C, and t hey either live in dry environments 
or are protected from inoculative freezing by their outer covering 
F. Certain adaptations are shared by freezing -tolerant and freeze-avoiding organisms, and in rare cases this allows 
organisms to switch between the two cold-survival strateg ies. 
Ancient Greek Pottery 

1.