[ Paragraph 1] An extremely important and long-standing industry in ancient Greece was the ceramics industry, giving rise 
to the huge number of pieces of pottery archaeologists and historians pore over. In reality, pottery production can almost 
be seen as a combination of a natural resources -based economy and a production-based economy, as the primary 
material-good clay-was a resu lt of the natural geology. However, not all city-states made equal use of their clay resources, 
and only two-Corinth and Athens-were really active in pottery export in t he Archaic Age (750 -500 BC) and following. 
[ Pa ragraph 2] As with weaving, pottery no doubt began as, and in many places remained, a household industry, probably 
practiced exclusively in t he summer when the clay and kindling wood were drier and easier to transport and burn But 
evidence of a more concentrated effort at production for export appeared already in the Bronze Age (3000-1 100 B c.) and 
continued in the Dark Ages (1100-800 B c ), as with the copious export of Euboean scyphi (drinking cups) to such locations 
in the Mediterranean as Cyprus, the Levant, and even Italy. These were fol lowed by the Corinthian cups and scyphi, and 
finally the Athenian kylix (a shallow type of wine goblet). The demand for Greek vessels to drink out of appears to have 
stemmed from a desire for Greek things to drink, and amphorae and pithoi (storage vessels), especially from Attica, also 
proliferated in the Mediterranean. 
[ Paragraph 3 ] This need for commercial production led to the rise of workshops and factories. Such workshops were 
usually family-owned businesses run by the head of the household, his sons (and possibly daughters), and, depending on 
the size of the industry, additional servants and/or slaves. The general assumption concerning many professional potters is 
that they were not citizens of the cities in which they worked. In Athens, these were the metics, or resident aliens, as wel l as 
slaves. The identity of the workers in t he primary ceramic working area in Corinth-the Potters' Quarter-is uncertain. But an 
inscribed pottery shard naming the Phoenician goddess Astarte suggests that there were Phoenician immigrants (from 
what is now Leba non) working there, or at least a heavy Phoenician influence. 
[ Paragraph 4 ] Happily for modern researchers, many artisans signed their works. This gives an idea not only of who these 
ancient ceramicists were, but also of how labor was divided Modern scholars have the names of a few potter-families from 
sixth-century B c Athens: Nearkhos, who worked with his sons Tleson and Ergoteles: Ergotimos, who was succeeded by his 
son Eukheiros (literally, "Good Hand" ); and Amasis and his son Kleophrades, who produced pottery from the mid -sixth 
century B c to the dawn of the fifth. The signatures ind icate, however, that although these men fashioned and fired the 
ceramics, others were employed to paint the more elaborate figural vases. Such artists traveled around to different 
workshops, like the sixth-century Epictetus, whose name as a painter accompanied about six different names of potters. 
[ Paragraph 5] Starting around 550 B.C., numbers were scratched onto the bottoms of some vases, often appearing after 
the name of the vase in full or abbreviated form. These may have been batch numbers, indicating groups of pots fired 
together and intended for specific merchants or markets. The merchants were also indicated by markings on some vases, 
whereby a signature sign or abbreviation indicated to which exporter or importer in the receiving city the pottery was 
destined In t he sixth century B c ., such merchants were frequently lomans (Greeks from cities on the Mediterranean coast 
of Asia Minor), who were responsible for much of the import-export business at Naucratis in the south and Gravisca in the 
west. 
[ Paragraph 6] But the most important markings from the point of view of economics are the actual "price tags" etched 
into some pots. An important difference in the price occurred between painted and undecorated vases, with a markup of 
anywhere from 25 to 50 percent for the figural vases. Clearly, this was because the pottery manufacturer had to pay for the 
additional labor. 
