1. According to paragraph 1, building materials in use before the nineteenth century were 
A. not significantly changed from their natural forms 
B. strong and durable 
C. too expensive to use on a large scale 
D. eventually replaced by lime mortar and Roman concrete 
2. In paragraph 1, the author discusses the properties of bronze and iron in order to
A. contrast the qualities of bronze with those of iron 
B. explain why metals were not widely used in architecture before industrialization 
C. provide a reason why industrialization rad ically changed architectural materials 
D. demonstrate that decorative materials were used in architecture before industrializat ion 
3. According to paragraph 2, how did iron production change during the Industrial Revolution? 
A. As the level of production dramatically increased, the quality of the finished product became more and more 
variable 
B. New, higher-quality sources of iron were discovered in Earth's crust. 
C. The distinction between pure and impure iron was replaced by distinctions among cast iron, wrought iron, and 
steel 
D. Better iron was produced through heating and cooling treatments, control of carbon content, and purification of 
the metal 
4. The word "bountifully" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. originally 
B. usually 
C. with difficulty 
D. abundantly 
5. The word "crudest" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. least common 
B. least processed 
C. least expensive 
D. least useful 
6. According to paragraph 2, how does steel compare with other forms of iron? 
A. It is the most widely available because it is the easiest to produce 
B. It is the hardest because it contains the least carbon 
C. It is the easiest to shape because it contains the fewest impurit ies 
D. It is the most useful because it is both strong and flexible. 
7. All of the fol lowing are mentioned in paragraph 3 as reasons for the increase in production of cast and wrought iron 
in the early and mid -nineteenth century EXCEPT 
A. lack of technology for steel production 
B. quickly rising demand for iron 
C. improved methods for producing iron 
D. new ways to move materials from place to place 
8. According to paragraph 4, how did the wrought iron referred to as steel differ from true steel? 
A. It was softer than true steel 
B. It contained more impurities than true steel did 
C. It was less expensive than true steel 
D. It cou ld not be shaped as easily as true steel. 
9. According to paragraph 4, why did some manufacturers of wrought iron call their product steel? 
A. To differentiate their product from cast iron 
B. To indicate that their product did not contain slag 
C. To take advantage of the value attached to true steel 
D. To suggest that steel could be as soft as wrought iron 
10. According to paragraph 5, all the following were advantages of concrete made with portland cement EXCEPT: 
A. It lasted longer than other types of concrete. 
B. It did not burn as easily as other types of concrete 
C. It was stronger than other types of concrete. 
D. It was cheaper than other types of concrete. 
11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? 
Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information 

A. Even wit h portland cement, concrete had a lower tensi le strength than iron and steel did and thus was used less as 
these metals became more available. 
B. The new availability of iron and steel complemented t he use of concrete but could not make up for the low tensile 
strength of portland cement. 
C. Li ke iron and steel, concrete went from being a material whose use was severely restricted to being one that was 
widely available. 
D. The widespread use of concrete wou ld not have been possible without iron and steel to offset its low tensile 
strength 
12. The word "revival" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. application 
B. return to use 
C. manufacture 
D. result 
13. Look at the four squares [] t hat indicate where t he following sentence could be added to the passage 
The remedy to concrete' s shortcomings was to reinforce it with such bars. 
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square [] to add t he sentence to the passage. 

14. Industrialization in the nineteenth century revolutionized bu ilding materials. 
Answer Choices 
A. The only early building materials t hat were not provided directly by nature were lime mortar and Roman concrete 
B. In the second half of the nineteenth century, it became possible to mass produce steel that was both strong and 
malleable 
C. The problem with iron as a building material is that, unlike wood and masonry, it quickly rusts. 
D. Technological adva nces and increased demand led to the production of vast quantities of cast and wrought iron in 
the first half of the nineteenth century 
E. Cast iron and wroug ht iron were the most common building materials unt il they were replaced by steel in the last 
third of the nineteenth century. 
F. The introduction of portland cement led to the large-scale use of concrete as a building material. 
Dealing with Extreme Cold 

1. The word "persist " in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. continue 
B. return 
C. vary widely 
D. keep fal ling 
2. The word "conservation " in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. contributing 
B. creating 
C. distributing 
D. saving 
3. According to paragraph 2, how does a layer of fat beneath the skin help an animal deal with subzero temperatures? 
A. It prevents blood from circulating to the animal's extremities 
B. helps t he animal generate its own heat. 
C. It reduces t he loss of body heat 
D. It helps t he animal to adjust its metabolism 
4. Paragraph 2 supports which of the fol lowing statements about endothermic animals? 
A. Some avoid freezing by remaining under a layer of snow, under the ground, or near the bottom of a lake 
B. They are unable to rema in active when temperatures are below 0°C over long periods of time. 
C. They are sometimes able to survive ice formation within their bodies in addition to being able to avoid freezing 
D. The ones that lie dormant in freezing temperatures tend to have less effective insulation than those that remain 
active. 
5. According to paragraph 3, an organism is freezing tolerant if it 
A. can live in an environment in which temperatures are generally below freezing 
B. has body and cell fluids with a very low melting point 
C. has more than one effective response to freezing temperatures 
D. can survive having the fluids in its cel ls freeze 
6. According to paragraph 3, organisms that are freezing tolerant are likely to live in an environment that 
A. wi ll not subject t hem to inocu lative freezing 
B. is wet during periods of below freezing temperatures 
C. makes changing demands that allow the organisms to switch between different cold- adaptive strategies as 
needed 
D. has no organisms that survive cold by using strategies that avoid freezing 
7. According to paragraph 3, having a cocoon or an eggshell may give an organism living in very low temperatures an 
advantage by 
A. making it freezing tolerant 
B. lowering the melting point of its body fluids 
C. protecting its outer surface from contact with ice 
D. preventing ice from getting inside its body 
8. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? 
Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information 

A. Organisms that find it easy to maintain their body fluids in a liquid state at low temperatures may be able to avoid 
the problem of inoculative freezing when exposed to water. 
B. Organisms that are unlikely to be in contact with water can avoid the problem of inoculative freezing at subzero 
temperatures by maintaining their body fluids in a liquid state 
C. it is easier for an organism to tolerate being frozen than to keep its body fluids liquid at subzero temperatures, 
inoculative freezing may not be a problem. 
D. Organisms that are not in contact with water during periods of subzero temperature may find it easier to survive 
the cold by using a strategy that keeps their body fluids from freezing 
9. The information about the "overwintering larvae of a beetle from northern Indiana' ' is presented to show 
A. that the particular cold-survival strategy an organism adopts is not necessarily a permanent characteristic of the 
species 
B. how long it takes an organism lo switch from one cold-surviving strategy to the other 
C. what types of adaptation make it possible for an organism to switch between the two cold-surviving strategies 
D. why adopting a freeze-avoiding strategy for cold survival rather than a freezing-tolerant strategy might be 
advantaaeous 
10. The phrase "intervening years" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. rema1n1ng years 
B. colder years 
C. years in between 
D. years studied 
11. The word "immersed" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. caught 
B. floating 
C. hiding 
D. covered 
12. At the end of paragraph 4, the author discusses an Antarctic nematode because 
A. it illustrates the kind of adaptations that freeze-avoiding and freezing-tolerant organisms have in common 
B. it shows that it is possible for organisms to switch between the two cold-survival strategies more than once 
C. it explains why it is easy for beetles to switch between the two cold -survival strategies 
D. the cold-survival strategy it displays is determined by the particular circumstances in which it finds itself 
13. Look at the four squares [] t hat indicate where t he following sentence could be added to the passage 
Thus there are usually places available where an inactive organism can wait out the cold without expending much 
energy to keep itself from freezing. 
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square [] to add the sentence to the passage. 

14. In many diverse environments, organisms must deal with the danger of freezing. 
A. Even in environments in which air temperatures are below freezing for long periods, there are generally some 
protected places in which temperatures remain safely above freezing. 
B. Organisms in wet environments that cannot avoid inoculative freezing can survive extreme cold only by being able 
to tolerate having their body fluids freeze. 
C. Freezing -tolerant beetles have been found to survive temperatures as low as -28°C , whereas beetles of the same 
species that are freeze avoiding could not survive temperatures below -26°C
D. Most endothermic animals must hibernate below an insulating layer of snow to avoid freezing because fur and 
feathers alone do not provide enough insulation. 
E. Freeze-avoid ing organisms have body fluids that remain liquid below 0°C, and t hey either live in dry environments 
or are protected from inoculative freezing by their outer covering 
F. Certain adaptations are shared by freezing -tolerant and freeze-avoiding organisms, and in rare cases this allows 
organisms to switch between the two cold-survival strateg ies. 
Ancient Greek Pottery 

1. According to paragraph 1, which of the following is true of Greek pottery? 
A. Pottery was produced only in Corinth and Athens because they were the only areas with the necessary clay 
resources 
B. The huge number of pottery pieces surviving today indicates that many city-states all over ancient Greece 
produced pottery for export. 
C. Pottery production in Greece was made possible by the good natural resources of that area 
D. Pottery was not really an important industry in ancient Greece because so few city-states were active in it. 
2. The word "exclusively" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. rarely 
B. only 
C. especially 
D. typically 
3. According to paragraph 2, weaving and pottery in ancient Greece were similar in which of the following ways? 
A. Both originally took place in individual households rather than commercial workshops 
B. were probably practiced only during the summer months. 
C. Both produced goods that were used only in the houses in which they were made. 
D. Both produced goods for export from as early as the Bronze and Dark Ages. 
4. The word "copious" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. abundant 
B. occasional 
C. profitable 
D. combined 
5. Why does the author mention "t he Athenian kylix"? 
A. To give an example of a type of ancient pottery produced for export by Greek potters 
B. To emphasize how great a number of Greek city-states produced pottery for export 
C. To compare the pottery produced in Athens to t he pottery made in Corinth 
D. To explain why there was such a demand for Greek drinking vessels 
6. It can be inferred from parag raph 2 that amphorae and pithoi were 
A. not produced by Greek city-states that made cups and goblets 
B. imported by the Greek city-states from other locations in the Mediterranean 
C. used by the Greeks to store and export liquids 
D. not in demand as Greek export products 
7. What is NOT mentioned in paragraph 3 as a characteristic of ancient Greek professional potters? 
A. They were generally not cit izens of the city in which they worked 
B. They often worked in workshops and factories run by fami ly-owned businesses. 
C. They were sometimes servants or slaves 
D. They probably had a higher social status in Corinth than in Athens 
8. Why does the author mention "the Phoenician goddess Astarte"? 
A. To contrast the place of origin of professional potters in Corinth and Athens 
B. To provide evidence that suggests that professional potters were often not citizens of the Greek city-states in 
which they worked 
C. To illustrate the primary purpose for pottery production in Corinth 
D. To provide an example of the type of pots that were produced in the ancient Greek pottery industry 
9. The word "elaborate" in the passage is closest in meaning to 
A. beautiful 
B. expensive 
C. complicated 
D. numerous 
10. According to paragraph 5, numbers scratched on the bottoms of vases probably indicate 
A. the year in which the pottery was made 
B. the importer or exporter to whom the pottery was destined 
C. the group of pots that were fired together and intended for a specific market 
D. the name of the vase in an abbreviated form 
11. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? 
Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information 

A. Merchants sig ned some vases in order to indicate to which city they intended to export the pottery. 
B. On some vases, the specific merchant receiving the pottery was indicated by a signature marking 
C. The merchants receiving the pottery often added their own signature signs or abbreviations to those already 
indicated. 
D. On some vases? there were both markings to designate merchants and signature signs to indicate the intended 
destination for the vase 
12. Which of t he fol lowing can be inferred from paragraph 5 about numbers scratched onto the bottom of Greek 
vases? 
A. The numbers were not found on vases destined for Naucratis and Gravisca. 
B. The numbers do not appear oft vases made before 550 B.C. 
C. The numbers were used only by Ionian merchants. 
D. The numbers scratched on a pot increased the pot' s value. 
13. Look at the four squares [] t hat indicate where t he following sentence could be added to the passage 
These artists therefore did not create the ceramics and were not often attached to any one workshop where the pots 
were being made. 
Where would the sentence best fit? Click on a square [] to add the sentence to t he passage. 

14. Ceramics was an important industry in ancient Greece that gave rise to the many pieces of pottery that 
researchers currently study. 
Answer Choices 
A. Though at first a household activity, in some city-states Greek pottery became an industry exporting products all 
over the Mediterranean. 
B. All of the Greek city-states used their clay resources to build an active pottery production and exporting industry. 
C. Professional potters worked in fami ly-run workshops and factories and were often not cit izens of the city in which 
they worked. 
D. Different markings found on pots have revealed t he identity of potters and various economic factors involved in , I • • I 
tne ancient ceramic 1naustry. 
E. The making of pots originally took place only in the summer because the clay and kindling were drier and easier to 
transport and burn. 
F. Markings on pottery have shown t hat elaborately painted vases were made in the Potters' Quarter, the ceramic 
working area in Corinth 